for over a year a legal battle between
the IT giants Apple and Samsung has been
widely reported in business newspapers
but the significance of these trials to
the shape of the world's economy has
been mentioned only by a few the market
for smartphones and tablet computers has
grown dramatically over recent years and
is now dominated by two companies Apple
incorporated is the biggest corporation
in the field followed by the South
Korean headquartered Samsung Apple sued
Samsung first claiming that Samsung has
copied apples design in its products
Samsung retaliated with lawsuits of its
own making similar claims the lawsuits
were filed in court in the US Britain
and Japan the struggle was compared by
the participants and by business media
to an actual battle the war metaphor is
prevalent in newspaper titles but can be
traced back to the late Steve Jobs
former CEO of Apple who threatened to go
thermonuclear against companies that
would copy Apple products Judge Lucy Coe
said in San Jose hearing in August 2012
that it is time for peace but this war
is a mock or neither apple nor Samsung
suffer any casualties the legal debates
have very little effect on the companies
themselves the largest compensation that
was awarded in August 2012 by US Court
against Samson was a sum of 1.1 billion
dollars a week later samsung won against
a similar lawsuit in Japan this March
judge Koh reduced Samsung's compensation
due to Apple by about half a billion
dollars which would amount to about 5%
of Samsung's be net profit for 2011 both
companies have tried to ban their
competitors products in various
countries Apple tried to ban Samsung
products from the US Samsung tried to
ban Apple products in Japan so far the
courts have refused to ban any of the
products but that is not to say that the
court cases amount to nothing while
building up the images if Apple and
Samsung gar slugging it out the reality
is that the companies complement each
other and the trials create dangerous
precedents building layers upon layers
of complexity into
long and effectively blocking the
smaller companies out of the market
Apple and Samsung are in fact doing
business with each other Apple in order
to preserve its high profit margins
chooses to employ only about sixty
thousand workers worldwide in order to
dominate the phone and tablet markets
Apple sources its supply of components
through cheap producers Apple sourced
components and especially flash drives
from Samsung the South Korean company is
smaller than Apple although it employs
over six times as many workers Apple now
claims in court that Samsung learned how
to design and produce phones and tablets
by serving as a supplier for Apple but
Apple doesn't need samsung only for the
parts in order to maintain its image as
providing a line of high-end products
its needs Samsung to provide cheaper
products to compare its own products
against Apple therefore dominates the
market in developed countries and
samsung dominates the market in
developing countries in which the
average household income is lower
Samsung's EVP kim hyun sook told the New
York Times in February that the company
doesn't try to create markets but is
driven by markets Samsung therefore
helps create the illusion but the
electronic gadgets are produced in a
competitive market mainstream economics
teaches that if a certain product turns
out to be profitable and in high demand
small companies will try to gain a
foothold will create competition and
make prices fall Samsung has built up
the image of such an underdog company
growing fast and taking a bite out of
apple's hegemonic monopoly this image
serves both companies as it distracts
from the process in which both companies
secure ownership of staggering amounts
of patents while at the same time
reinforcing their ability to keep the
market divided between them they are
estimated to be a quarter million
different patents registered which are
relevant to the production of
smartphones each patent can be grounds
for the owning company to sue any
company or individual who is producing a
similar item Apple went so far as to
include in its lawsuit the claim that
the rectangular shape with rounded
corners is an apple design feature
this claim at least was rejected by the
jury patent law is frequently understood
as the mechanism to safeguard the
rewards of innovation but companies who
employ batteries of lawyers and spend
hundreds of millions of dollars on
patenting every possible aspect of the
products are not rewarding innovation by
doing the exact opposite they are
putting up bull works against
competition if a company would attempt
to design a gadget to complete with
existing smartphones it will need to go
over a quarter of a million patents in
order to make sure that it will not be
sued for patent infringement if it
somehow overcomes this obstacle and
designs an entirely new product it might
not even be recognizable as a phone and
the company will have to spend millions
in advertisements to educate the public
that their gadget can indeed be useful
in the first week of March a US Court
has rejected the demand by Samsung to
open up a new trial tube an apple
product in the UK two days later judge
Koh ruled that Apple may continue to
trial with further accusations it has
against Samsung each additional trial
each additional ruling serve as a
warning message to potential competitors
that they should be wary of entering
into this market unless they are
prepared to pay large amounts of money
in legal battles although Samsung and
Apple both spent many millions of
dollars in their lawsuits against each
other both companies remain extremely
profitable the legal battles help them
keep their control over the smartphones
and tablets market and in general in
shaping a world economy built on a
monopoly over patents and the threat of
lawsuits restricting innovation this is
Shir Hever for the real news
you